Polyfill will be a replacement for new version of code.for oldest browsers.

Babel will take our latest ES6 code convert into old version code for old browsers.
Its a javascript compiler

so that it can be executed by a web browser

Git is a devops tool for source code management.



remove the console using npm

npm i babel-plugin-transform-remove-console


when we have multiple childs,its needs to be have an separate key for every child,because its helpful for react to
render that separate key.otherwise whole dom structure will re render.


React.createElement => Object => Html(DOM)


So its difficult to write react.createElement if we have multiple childs,so JSX CAME TO PICTURE

jsx used to write html like syntax in javascript and place in the DOM.

In more words jsx uses react.createElement behind the scenes that converted into Object and thats converted into html(DOM).

a syntax extension for JavaScript.

Babel doing this for us ...it convert jsx to react.createElement(concepts)

differences :
1.singleparent
2.js directly in jsx
3.self close tag (option)
4.attributes in camelcase   


advantages :
1.readablity
2.maintainable
3.js directly in jsx
4.performance through the virtual dom


The Type attribute used in the script tag used to indicate the type of script being used in the webpage.
if we use these it will be better compatabilty for old browsers.

vbscript - internetexplorer
module  - ecmascript




When we have multiple line ,put parathesis first ().


id is the concept in html, but in react key is used to find the uniqueness in html.

packagelock have the exact versions of dependencies we have.

node_modules - package.lock => it have the transitive dependencies



React components

1.Functional components - new
2.Class components - old


components in react are reusable piece of code ,that are the specific aspect of user interface.

it was a building block of react application.

Functional components : its nothing but a functions and it returns the react element.

function header1 (){
    return <h1>hi</h1>
}

class components :  its a javascript class, its extend the react.component and implement render method to return 
                    the react element.

class header1 extends React.component {
    render(){
        return <h1>hi</h1>
    }
}



malicous => hacker wants something to inject in our application

jsx take care of xss (malicious)

xss - cross site scripting


whatever we write in jsx it execute in server.


component composition => if you want to use one component in another component that is component composition.

Arrow function is a shortand notation for javascript functions.it was introduced in ecmascript ES6.

arrow function have more relaxed this binding.In normal function ,this was determined how the function was called,
but in arrow,the value this determined by the scope which the function is defined.